All right now let's really get started on creating these characters.
Now the first step in the process is creating thumbnail sketches and a lot of them.
Now this is to help you refine your character and make them very readable and unique.
And just a good character overall.
Now in the industry most professionals will do at least 100 thumbnails for anything from a character
design to a logo design.
The reason why they do this is because the first drawing you do is almost never the best one.
The more you do the more ideas you can come up with and the more you can start combining different thumbnails
to create the perfect sketch.
Now if you don't want to do 100 thumbnails or you don't think you have the time.
That's OK.
But I do recommend that you do at least 20 different thumbnails so that you get the best results for
your character.
Now our first set of thumbnails are going to be basically just shapes for our characters.
And when I say shapes what I mean is every character at least good characters can be broken down into
simple shapes.
I'm going to show you what I mean.
So right here we have my little character sketch that I've done and I'm going to break him down into
the simple shapes that he's made out of.
So the first simple shape is pretty obvious.
His head is just a circle.
I may bring my breast size up so you can see it better.
It's a circle.
The next one is his body which is a rectangle.
The next one would be his legs.
And I'm going to leave his arms out because he's not really part of the overall simple shape of them.
It's a part of his shape but not the simple shape.
So you can see we've got to circle his torso and his legs and they're just broken down into very simple
shapes.
All right.
Let's do another one.
So now we have this bulldog that I did.
His head is obviously a square his ears can be looked at as either ovals or even triangles.
It just depends on how you look at it.
The body can be looked at as a rectangle with two triangles or it can be looked at as a full triangle
like so.
Let's do one more.
So here I have a character sketch that I've done and he's a little bit more complicated.
But if we really look at it you can see that his head kind of makes the shape of a triangle with this
hat.
Now it's very rough but that's basically the shape that is making his body with his coat is making a
big broad rectangle.
Then his legs would be a little rectangle sticking out the bottom.
And that's his basic character shape.
Now I recommend that you also go online and go to Google images and do a quick search for character
shape and this will come up with a ton of great examples of character shapes so see here they have characters
and then they have their broken down shape above them.
See one right here and this will help you to start thinking of your characters and drawings in terms
of shapes and not necessarily lines.
All right.
So I'm going to go ahead and start creating my thumbnail sketches.
If you don't want to watch me create all these thumbnail sketches you don't have to.
You can go ahead and skip ahead if you want to watch me create these and see how I work.
Go ahead and stick around.
And I'm going to get to work right now.
OK.
So I've done about 14 sketches now.
So this is a good amount.
You might want to do a few more.
And it's even better if you can do up to 100.
I'll see you in the next lecture and we'll start to get to work on refining our thumbnail sketches.
Thanks for watching.